>> Kyle Simpson: Okay so let's go back to
the text, I know I kinda jumped around
a little bit and I'll well let's
a get ourself back on track and
make sure we understand that
we track back with the text.
So, [COUGH] and the next topic
that's addressed is what we've
only talked about so far, is how to think
about what a program is structured in.
And maybe start to thinking our brains
about what we do if we wanted to do it,
but it turns out that it's
much more important for
the computer to run our program, in the
end than it is for us to run our program.
So, it is that duality as
was brought up before,
between needing to be able to look at a
program and understand what it should do,
and then being able to rely upon the
computer to do what it actually must do.
And those are two really important
halves of the brain, if you will.
So executing a program,
what does that mean?
Well, essentially it means,
turning the statements that we've written,
like a equals b times 2,
into low level instructions,
that a computer can do something with.
The computer itself would look
at a equals b times 2 and
have no idea what that meant.
JavaScript knows what it means.
JavaScript needs to translate
it into something else,
that then can be translated and translated
further and further down the stack,
until eventually,
you get to that series of 1s and
0s and the computer says,
I know what to do with that.
The 1 means put an electrical charge in
and the 0 means turn it off, and I can
switch back and forth between 1's and
0s really fast, and run all those things
through the circuitry in my computers CPU,
and out pops a number, right?
So, it's this process of getting
something from this high level language,
like JavaScript, this a equals b times 2,
which isn't exactly like natural language.
It's not like I said it'd be
interesting if there was a programming
language where I could say,
set the variable a to the value 2, right?
>> Speaker 2: Cool.
>> Kyle Simpson: There are languages that
are even higher level, than JavaScript is.
And so understanding that sort of,
what we call it in programming
we call it abstraction.
At this level,
it looks like an English sentence.
There would have to be a translation
from that into something lower level cuz
the computer would look at that and
equally be confused.
So a translation level would go from that
to maybe something like a = 2, right.
And then something would have to go
from a = 2 down into another layer,
and we might be getting too far field, but
I just wanna make sure you understand.
So the next layer down might be something
that people refer to as assembly language,
which is still a high level language,
it's not a 1 and a 0 but it's lower level.
And I don't even memorize assembly
language but it's something like mov
a,2 or something like that or I think
it's 2,a or something like that, but
that lower level thing is like, I got
these two different registers in memory or
whatever and
move one into the other, right?
And then finally, at the lowest level
of the stack its taken that thing down
into a series of 1s and 0s.
That's really, really long and that 1 in
0 string tells the computer what to do.
So what we want, is we wanna figure out to
execute my program of course we don't need
this top level, but
we definitely need this a = b level.
We need something to convert it from
that layer down into the next layer.
There'll be something else that
handles it on and on and on,
however many steps it needs to take.
But we need something to
do that first step, and
that something is the JavaScript engine,
the thing that's built into our browser,
the thing that you can invoke
in the developer console.
If you were doing programming on a server,
there's an environment where
JavaScript can run on a server.
And I mean there's all
kinds of different places.
JavaScript can run on watches and
inside of light bulbs, and whatever.
But in every place that there is,
there's a JavaScript engine,
that takes something like a = 2 and
turns it into something that that
environment knows what to do with.
And that's what we mean
by executing a program.
It's taking that source code
that we've written in text form,
converting it into something that the next
layer down knows what to do with, okay?
Now, quick little kind
of myth busting thing.
It is often said of
languages like JavaScript,
that they are scripting languages.
Of course the word script shows up in
JavaScript, so it's natural to assume,
that it's a scripting language.
And it's also often said that
scripting languages are interpreted.
In other words, one statement at a time,
it works on that statement and
then it goes to the next statement and
then the next statement.
So when it's working on
the statement on line three,
it has no idea what to expect of line
four cuz it hasn't gotten there yet.
It's like if you're working
through a to-do list,
and you're like I don't even
care about item two yet,
cuz the top item on my to-do list is
the only thing I'm thinking about, right?
Well, that's what we mean by interpreting,
and there are languages that are, in fact,
interpreted like that,
that are interpreted line by line by line.
An example of that might be something like
a command line scripting like Bash or
whatever.
It's not fully interpreted,
there's a little bit of nuance there but
it's essentially interpreted line by line.
And it's often times assumed
that JavaScript is the same way.
It's often times assumed that JavaScript
interpreted with line one and
then line two and then line three, there
have been many books that have said that.
And it is true that in the very earliest
days of JavaScript it worked a lot
more like that.
It's definitely true that when Brandon
was first inventing it as a prototype,
he didn't really have all the time to go
through all of these sophisticated stuff
so he had to make just bank something out
quickly, and it cut a lot of corners.
And so essentially, in the very
beginning it was kind of that way.
But very quickly, JavaScript matured,
and by very quickly,
I mean within those first couple of years,
JavaScript matured to the point where
interpreting it wasn't really practical,
anymore.
And yet, that myth propagates even today,
people say,
JavaScript's a scripting language.
It's interpreted, it's not.
And the other option,
if it's not an interpreted language,
the other thing that we talk about is
what's called a complied language.
And what a compiled language and
an interpretative language,
the way that they primarily differ, is not
the way you might think that they differ.
So most people think of compilation as I'm
producing some physical series of 1s and
0s and putting those into a file,
that I can send that series of 1s and
0s to other people, and they don't need
to process it, they just need to run it.
And they think about interpreted
languages as not doing that,
that every time you wanna run it,
it has to reprocess from the beginning.
So that's one way of thinking about
the difference between interpreting and
compiled but
the more important distinction,
the one that matters to JavaScript,
is that compilations means,
that there is more than one
pass through your program.
So when you put a program like this,
if that was in a file and
you loaded that up into browser,
line one would never run,
you'd immediately get an error
saying line two is invalid.
Whereas if you put this into a scripting
language like a bash or something,
line one would run and
then you get an error on line two.
And that's the major distinction that we
wanna make between this compilation versus
interpreting.
The good news is that because
JavaScript's compiled,
a lot of these mistakes that you can
make in your programming, are gonna get
caught at the very beginning, before
you've had a chance to mess something up.
You try to run your program and the first
thing that happens is it gets compiled.
And if the compilation throws an error,
and says, hey, you've messed up,
that's not good.
Then you know what you need to fix,
it'll tell you, line two is invalid,
two's not a function, or whatever.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
that's the distinction we'll make, and,
we'll kind of leave it there.
There's definitely more details,
and I expound on that a lot more in the
scope and closures book in this series.
But we'll kind of leave it for there,
think of JavaScript more like a compiled
language than an interpreted language.
And that is, it doesn't really matter that
JavaScript doesn't get put into binary
form and
distributed the way the exe files are.
What matters is that JavaScript
gets compiled for error checking.